# torrenter_cpp

BitTorrent client that listens for messages sent by other programs and downloads the torrent to the desired directory.

Why make something like this?  This is my answer to the more monolithic solutions that end up doing nothing quite exactly how I want it when it comes to automatic managing of torrent downloading, and also lack programmability.

The idea is to make a distributed torrent downloading system, where there is this core piece and there are other separate programs that send it torrents to download, like perhaps from an RSS feed, webscraping, or any other sort of automated gathering process using any desired tools or languages.   All these other programs have to do is send a Cap'n Proto message (which has many language bindings) to the core piece and it will download the torrent to the desired destination and manage it's seeding.

One could imagine this being the core piece of a program with an actual GUI where information and commands are sent via Cap'n Proto messages between the GUI and core, also enabling it to be easily managed from afar.

Torrents are downloaded to a temporary directory and then copied to the desired location.  Only listens for IPC messages currently, though the idea is to move to using TCP and have some back-and-forth communication.

Why Cap'n Proto? I wanted to try it after working with google protocol buffers for a while.  Microsoft Bond was also in the running to be tried but failed to install easily.

It must be run as root because it manages an openvpn process that requires root access.  The dream would be to embed logic for connecting to and communicating with the OpenVPN server inside the application, since right now all traffic on the system will also be sent through the OpenVPN server.  In theory this is possible, but it does require quite a merging of OpenVPN and Libtorrent libraries, as well as probably writing pieces of my own TCP/IP stack in order to capture the traffic being generated by Libtorrent and tunnel the traffic through openVPN, and receive traffic from OpenVPN and deliver it to Libtorrent.

Ideas for expansion:
    - Come up with an actual name
    - Command line tool that sends a torrent file or magnetURL to the core
    - Add ability to query the core for torrent status
    - Add ability to start/stop/otherwise control the application via RPC interface
    - Grouping of torrents by application that sent it
    - Notification of download complete, either in some sort of summary email and/or actually letting the app know (if a response was requested by that app).
